[Proposal] Fungible Token Standard (#4)
klaytn/kips: KIPs/kip-fungible_token.md

---
kip: <to be assigned>
title: Fungible Token Standard
author: Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category (*only required for Standard Track): Token
created: 2020-01-16
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged KIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new KIPs. Note that a KIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your KIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `kip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary
<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the KIP.-->

> A very first fungible token standard for Klaytn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fungible token standard for Klaytn.
```

The following standard allows for the implementation of a standard API for tokens within smart contracts.
This standard provides basic functionality to transfer tokens.

## Motivation
<!--The motivation is critical for KIPs that want to change the Klaytn protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the KIP solves. KIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.-->
A standard interface allows any tokens on Klaytn to be re-used by other applications: from wallets to decentralized exchanges.

## Specification
<!--The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current Klaytn platforms (klaytn). -->
This document derived heavily from Ethereum's [ERC-20 token standard](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-20.md) written by Fabian Vogelsteller and Vitalik Buterin.

### Summary of Methods and Events
The table below is a summary of methods.
The prototype uses the syntax from Solidity `0.4.24` (or above).

> If the optional field is empty, the function must be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a function is not optional, it must be implemented.
```

|Name|Optional|Prototype|
|---|---|---|
|[totalSupply](#totalsupply)| |function totalSupply() public view returns (uint256)|
|[balanceOf](#balanceof)| |function balanceOf(address _owner) public view returns (uint256 balance)|
|[transfer](#transfer)| |function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)|
|[name](#name)|O|function name() public view returns (string)|
|[symbol](#symbol)|O|function symbol() public view returns (string)|
|[decimals](#decimals)|O|function decimals() public view returns (uint8)|

The table below is a summary of events.

> The prototype uses the syntax from Solidity `0.4.24` (or above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prototype uses the syntax from Solidity `0.4.24` (or above).
All the following events must be implemented.
```

---

> kip: <to be assigned>

Author: ```suggestion
kip: 4
```

title: Fungible Token Standard
author: Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track

> category (*only required for Standard Track): Token

Author: ```suggestion
category: Token
```

|[symbol](#symbol)|O|function symbol() public view returns (string)|
|[decimals](#decimals)|O|function decimals() public view returns (uint8)|

The table below is a summary of events.
The prototype uses the syntax from Solidity `0.4.24` (or above).
All the following events must be implemented.

|Name|Prototype|
|---|---|
|[Transfer](#transfer-1)|event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)|

### Methods

#### totalSupply

Returns the total token supply.

```solidity
function totalSupply() public view returns (uint256)
```

#### balanceOf

Returns the balance of the account specified by the address `_owner`.

```solidity
function balanceOf(address _owner) public view returns (uint256 balance)
```

#### transfer

Transfers `_value` amount of tokens to address `_to`, and MUST fire the [Transfer event](#transfer-1).
The function SHOULD `throw` if the message caller's balance does not have enough tokens to spend.

*Note* Transfers of 0 values MUST be treated as normal transfers and fire the [Transfer event](#transfer-1).

```solidity
function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)
```

#### name

> Returns the name of the token - e.g. `"Klaytn"`.

Reviewer 2: How about using other word like below. It may cause misunderstood with base token.
```suggestion
Returns the name of the token - e.g. `"MyToken"`.
```

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability,
but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

```solidity
function name() public view returns (string)
```

#### symbol

> Returns the symbol of the token. E.g. "KLAY".

Reviewer 2: Like above. How about using other one?

```suggestion
Returns the symbol of the token. E.g. `"MT"`.
```
